# Theme Templates

We can now add *a lot* of dynamic content to our site, like these static blocks up here, grids, or lists. The grids and lists can hold items from Contentful *or* our Recipe entity. But to *really* make our site shine, we need some flexibility over how pieces on the site render. Let's start simple, by overriding the template that renders one of these blocks for the entire app.

Let's override the template for the Title block. First, we need to know which template is currently rendering the Title block. An easy way to find out is to go to a page that renders one of the Title blocks, refresh, and go into the Twig web debug, toolbar. Down at the bottom, you can see the whole tree here, and if you look closely, down here... apparently there's a `block/title.html.twig`. Cool!

Layouts itself *also* has a really nice web debug toolbar section. And if you go to "Rendered blocks", you can see "Block definition: title", "Text", "List", and "Footer". And in this case, the Title is rendered by, as we saw, `title.html.twig`. Notice that almost all of these templates are nestled in the `/themes/standard` directories. Layouts has a concept of *themes*, though we won't need to create *multiple* themes unless we're building some sort of multi-site application. In our case, we're just going to use the one built-in theme called "standard". But themes are still important, because anything inside of a theme can be easily overridden by putting a template in *just* the right spot. We're going to use that convention to override the Title template.

Let's do it! First, in the `/templates` directory, make sure you have a `/nglayouts` directory. Inside of that, add a directory called `/themes`... followed by a sub-directory called `/standard`. You may have noticed that we're matching the structure that's over here: `/nglayouts/themes/standard`.

Inside of *this*, since this is called `/block/title.html.twig`, if we create that *same* path in our directory, *our* `title.html.twig` will win. So create a new directory called `/block` and a new file inside called `title.html.twig`. To see if it works, we'll just write some dummy text in there. Cool. Let's try it. Go back to the Skills page, refresh, and... absolutely *nothing* happens. That's because the first time we create this `/themes` directory, we need to clear the cache. Now that we've done that... woohoo! We can control the Title block!

Okay, so maybe we want to customize the Title, but we *don't* want to start from scratch. We want to *reuse* some of the core logic. I'll hit "shift" + "shift", search for `title.html.twig`, and select "Include non-project items". Let's open the core one - `/nglayouts/themes`. There's actually *a lot* going on here. You can see that it extends a template called `block.html.twig`. I'll open that up.

This contains a lot of base functionality like reading the dynamic `css_class` stuff that we may have set on it, as well as handling if there's a container or not. Good stuff! In `title.html.twig`, it also handles whether the title is a link, along with some other stuff. We could *totally* replace this if we wanted to. But instead, I'm going to copy the core template, paste it into mine, and even though it's not really necessary to change anything here, just to prove that I can, let's remove that `title` class. Now, when we go over and refresh... it goes back to how it looked before. But down here, there's no longer a `title` class on the `<h1>`.

So the simplest way to control how something looks is to find the template that renders it and override it completely using this `/themes` directory structure. Let's do that *next*. We'll customize what it looks like when you render an asset field from Contentful, like this image field we're running from Contentful on the Skills page.
